# FinalProject
## Blackout Poetry
[Website](https://clarissafurtado7.github.io/FinalProject/index.html)
## Project Statement
My final project was based on blackout poetry. I wanted to emulate the process of writing, and used blackout poetry as simulation of the idea of editing. My project utilizes a JavaScript library in order to write and delete various words and phrases. Rather than taking an existing text and blacking out words I didn't want in the final version, I deleted them from the page, so that all that is left is the words that are meant to be in the final work. The ideas I focused on were heavily based on the idea of childhood friendship, so all the illustrations are meant to evoke childhood drawings. In addition, since part of my focus was the idea of the writing process itself, some works may seem unfinished or make less sense, but that was part of the idea I was trying to convey. 

As far as the content itself, I started getting obsessed with the idea of platonic heartbreak, something that heavily influenced my course project. Most ideas of heartbreak are heavily romantic, most songs are the same, and the idea that platonic breakups can be equally as devastating, if not more, depending on circumstance, was something that I think really had an influence on my work. Specifically, I based a lot of my project on "brocedes", which is the fandom name for the relationship between Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg (two Formula 1 drivers), and their very public fallout. The idea that you could grow up together and then your specific circumstances doom you to break apart was something that inspired me. None of my personal writing about it is necessarily about the real people, more about the narrative they create and the ideas they evoke. I've written a lot about the idea, an excerpt:"oh my god the idea of losing something like that, someone like that, forever??? they knew you better than anyone else ever could every moment in your life they were there and now you turn around, the ghost of them in the corner of your vision but there's nothing. you're alone. was it worth it, in the end?". The idea of platonic heartbreak is also more personal and evocative to me, because romantic breakups are more common and expected, but friends can, and often are, around for a lot of your life. I think I also feel the idea of platonic loss deeply, as I've always thought about the idea of friendship in adulthood through the lens of my parents. They still talk to a lot of their college friends, but not very often. At the same time, it's clear when they meet up how close they are. The idea of the change one must encounter in life influencing the relationships one has is also a motif I tried to incorporate, as it's one I've thought about significantly.
